static/doc/en/quickstart.md, before:

**microStudio** is an integrated video game development environment.
It includes all the tools you need to create your first video game!
**microStudio** offers all the following possibilities:

* a sprite editor (images, in pixel art)
* a map editor (i.e. maps or levels)
* a code editor to program in microScript, a simple yet powerful language
* 100% online operation allowing you to test your game instantly at any time during its development
* the possibility to easily install the game, finished or in progress, on smartphones and tablets
* the ability to work with several people on the same project with instant synchronization
* Community sharing features that allow you to explore others' projects, learn and reuse anything you want for your own project.

# Quick start

You can start by exploring projects made by other users, in the *Explore* section.

To start creating a game it is necessary to create an account. Choose a nickname (avoid using
your real name), enter your email address (necessary in case of password forgetfulness; must be validated to be able to publish) and let's go!

## First project

You can either create a new empty project in the Create section, or choose an existing project in the Explorer section and click on the "Clone" button to create your own copy and start customizing it.

### Code

Once your project has been created, you are in the "Code" section. This is where you can start programming. Try to copy and paste the code below:

```
draw = function()
  screen.drawSprite ("icon",0,0,100,100)
end
```

### Execute

Then click on the Play button on the right-hand side of the screen. Your program starts and you see that the code above displays the project icon in the middle of the screen. Change the display coordinates (the digits 0 and 100) to see the position and dimensions of the icon vary.

### Modify in real time

You can then make this first program more interactive, by copying and pasting the code below:

```
update = function()
  if keyboard.LEFT then x -= 1 end
  if keyboard.RIGHT then x += 1 end
  if keyboard.UP then y += 1 end
  if keyboard.DOWN then y -= 1 end
end

draw = function()
  screen.fillRect(0,0,400,400,"#000")
  screen.drawSprite("icon",x,y,20,20)
end
```

This time the program allows you to move the project icon with the keyboard arrows. The meaning of the functions ```update``` and ```draw```, the test of the keyboard keys with ```keyboard```, the drawing on the screen with ```screen``` are all explained in detail later in this documentation.

You can also go to the Sprites section, click on the "icon" element and start editing the image. When you return to the Code section, you will see that your changes are instantly taken into account in the program currently running.

# Explore

The main section *Explorer* allows you to discover projects created by other users. You can find examples of games, reusable templates, sprite libraries in different styles and themes. If you are interested in a particular project, you can clone it, i.e. create a complete copy of it that you can then modify and reuse for your own purposes.

If you have previously opened one of your projects in the Create section, you will be able to import each sprite or source file of the projects you are exploring to your current project. This allows you to pick images or features that interest you from among the community's public projects, and reuse them for your own purposes.

# Create a project

You can create an empty project in the main section *Create*. Your project has several sections:

* **Code** : this is where you create your programs and start executing your project to test and debug it.
* **Sprites**: *sprites* are images that you can draw and modify in this section. You can easily refer to them to display them (paste them on the screen) when you program your game.
* **Maps**: Maps are scenes or levels that you can create by assembling your sprites on a grid. You can easily display them on the screen in your program
* **Doc** : here you can write documentation for your project; it can be a game design document, a tutorial, a guide to reuse your project as a template etc.
* **Options**: Here you can set various options for your project; you can also invite other users to participate in your project with you.
* **Publish**: Here you can make your project public; don't forget to create a description and add tags.

## Code

In this section you program and test your project. A source code file is automatically created for your project. You can add others to divide the functionalities of your project into various sub-sets.

The operation of a microStudio program is based on your implementation of 3 essential functions:

* the function ```init``` where you initialize your variables
* the function ```update``` where you animate your objects and scan the entries
* the ```draw``` function where you draw on the screen

<!--- help_start init = function --->
### Function ```init()```

The init function is called only once when the program is launched. It is useful in particular for defining the initial state of global variables that can be used in the rest of the program.
<!--- help_end --->
##### example
```
init = function()
  status = "welcome"
  level = 1
  position_x = 0
  position_y = 0
end
```

### Function ```update()```
<!--- help_start update = function --->
The function ```update``` is invoked 60 times per second. The body of this function is the best place to program the logic and physics of the game: state changes, sprite or enemy movements, collision detection, keyboard, evaluation of touch or gamepad inputs, etc.
<!--- help_end --->

##### example
```
update = function()
  if keyboard.UP then y = y+1 end
end
```

The above code increases the value of the y variable by 1 every 60th of a second if the ```UP``` key on the keyboard is pressed (up arrow).

<!--- help_start draw = function --->
### Function ```draw()```
The ```draw``` function is called as often as the screen can be refreshed. This is where you have to draw your scene on the screen, for example by filling in a large coloured rectangle (to erase the screen), then drawing a few sprites or shapes on top of it.
<!--- help_end --->

##### example
```
draw = function()
  // fill the screen with black
  screen.fillRect(0,0,screen.width,screen.width,screen.height, "rgb(0,0,0)")
  // draw the sprite "icon" in the center of the screen, in size 100x100
  screen.drawSprite("icon",0,0,100,100)
end
```

In most cases, ```draw``` is called 60 times per second. But some computers or tablets can refresh their screens 120 times per second or even more. It can also happen that the device running the program is overloaded and cannot refresh the screen 60 times per second, in which case the ```draw``` function will be called less often. This is why ```update``` and ```draw``` are two separate functions: no matter what happens, ```update``` will be called exactly 60 times per second; and when ```draw``` is called, it is time to redraw the screen.

### Execution

In the "Code" section, the right part of the screen allows you to see your program in action, while continuing to modify its source code. To launch the program, simply click on the <i class="fa fa-play"></i> button. You can interrupt the execution of your program at any time by clicking on the button <i class="fa fa-pause"></i>.

### Console

During the execution of your program, you can use the console to execute simple commands in *microScript*. For example, you can simply enter the name of a variable to find out its current value.

##### examples
Know the current value of the position_x variable
```
> position_x
34
>
```
Change position value_x
```
> position_x = -10
-10
>
```
Call the draw() function to see the change in position_x and its effect on the drawing on the screen (assuming that the execution is paused)
```
> draw()
>
```

### Traces

In your program code, you can send text to be displayed on the console at any time, using the ```print()``` function.

##### example
```
draw = function()
  // your draw implementation()

  print(position_x)
end
```
## Sprites

Sprites are images that can move on the screen. The drawing tool in *microStudio* allows you to create sprites, which can then be used in the program code to display them on the screen at the desired position and size.

### Create a sprite
Each project has a default sprite, called "icon", which will act as the application's icon. You can create new sprites by clicking on *Add a sprite*. You can rename them as you wish and define their size in pixels (width x height).

### Drawing options
*microStudio* offers the classic drawing functions: pencil, filling, eraser, lighten, darken, soften, increase contrast, change saturation.

The eyedropper tool can be used at any time by pressing the [Alt] key on the keyboard.

The *tile* and symmetry options will help you to create "repeatable" sprites or sprites with one or two symmetry axes.

##### Tip
You can import image files to your microStudio project. To do so, drag and drop PNG or JPG files (up to 256x256 pixels in size) to the list of sprites.

## Maps
A map in microStudio is a grid for assembling sprites. It allows you to assemble a decor or create a level.

### Create a map
Maps can be created, renamed just like sprites. It is possible to modify the size of the grid (in number of cells). Each cell can be painted with a sprite. It is possible to change the pixel size of each cell, which should generally reflect the size of the sprites used to paint the grid.


## Settings
The *Settings* tab allows you to customize some elements of your project.

### Options
You can define the title of your project, its identifier (used to create its URL i.e. its internet address).

You can specify whether your project should be used in portrait or landscape mode. This choice will be taken into account when installing your application on a smartphone or tablet.

You can also specify the desired proportions for the display area on the screen. This is an option to ensure the application always looks good when installed on devices with screens of different proportions.

### Users

The users section allows you to invite friends to participate in your project. You must know the nickname of the friend you want to invite. Once a friend is invited, if she accepts your invitation, she will have full access to your project and will be able to make any changes she wants (modify, add, delete sprites, maps, code etc.). However, the modification of the project options and the list of participants is reserved for the project owner.

## Publish

*microStudio* offers a few options for publishing or exporting your project. You can export your project as a standalone HTML5 app, for distribution online, on your site or on game distribution platforms. You can also make your project public on *microStudio* allowing the community to play with it, comment, explore the source code and assets... More export options are planned for the future.

### Make the project public

To make your project accessible to everyone (read-only), click on "Make my project public". Once your project is public, it will be displayed in the exploration tab of the microstudio site. Any visitor will be able to run the game, view and reuse the source code and other components of your project.

Your game has a permanent URL in the form ```https://microstudio.io/author_nickname/game_id/```. You can of course distribute the link to anyone or you may add your game to your existing website by embedding it into an iframe.

### Export to HTML5

To export your full project to a standalone HTML5 app, click "Export to HTML5". This triggers the download of a ZIP archive, containing all the files necessary to run your game: sprites, some JavaScript files, icons and a main HTML file "index.html". Your game can be run locally (double-click the file index.html) or you may upload it to your existing website. It is also ready to be published on many online game distribution platforms that accept HTML5 games (we suggest a few in the HTML5 export panel).

Commit message:

clarified in the doc that you can start working as a guest

static/doc/en/quickstart.md, after:

**microStudio** is an integrated video game development environment.
It includes all the tools you need to create your first video game!
**microStudio** offers all the following possibilities:

* a sprite editor (images, in pixel art)
* a map editor (i.e. maps or levels)
* a code editor to program in microScript, a simple yet powerful language
* 100% online operation allowing you to test your game instantly at any time during its development
* the possibility to easily install the game, finished or in progress, on smartphones and tablets
* the ability to work with several people on the same project with instant synchronization
* Community sharing features that allow you to explore others' projects, learn and reuse anything you want for your own project.

# Quick start

You can start by exploring projects made by other users, in the *Explore* section.

You can start creating as a guest, or you can directly set up an account. Choose a nickname (avoid using
your real name), enter your email address (necessary in case you forget your password) and let's go!

## First project

You can either create a new empty project in the Create section, or choose an existing project in the Explorer section and click on the "Clone" button to create your own copy and start customizing it.

### Code

Once your project has been created, you are in the "Code" section. This is where you can start programming. Try to copy and paste the code below:

```
draw = function()
  screen.drawSprite ("icon",0,0,100,100)
end
```

### Execute

Then click on the Play button on the right-hand side of the screen. Your program starts and you see that the code above displays the project icon in the middle of the screen. Change the display coordinates (the digits 0 and 100) to see the position and dimensions of the icon vary.

### Modify in real time

You can then make this first program more interactive, by copying and pasting the code below:

```
update = function()
  if keyboard.LEFT then x -= 1 end
  if keyboard.RIGHT then x += 1 end
  if keyboard.UP then y += 1 end
  if keyboard.DOWN then y -= 1 end
end

draw = function()
  screen.fillRect(0,0,400,400,"#000")
  screen.drawSprite("icon",x,y,20,20)
end
```

This time the program allows you to move the project icon with the keyboard arrows. The meaning of the functions ```update``` and ```draw```, the test of the keyboard keys with ```keyboard```, the drawing on the screen with ```screen``` are all explained in detail later in this documentation.

You can also go to the Sprites section, click on the "icon" element and start editing the image. When you return to the Code section, you will see that your changes are instantly taken into account in the program currently running.

# Explore

The main section *Explorer* allows you to discover projects created by other users. You can find examples of games, reusable templates, sprite libraries in different styles and themes. If you are interested in a particular project, you can clone it, i.e. create a complete copy of it that you can then modify and reuse for your own purposes.

If you have previously opened one of your projects in the Create section, you will be able to import each sprite or source file of the projects you are exploring to your current project. This allows you to pick images or features that interest you from among the community's public projects, and reuse them for your own purposes.

# Create a project

You can create an empty project in the main section *Create*. Your project has several sections:

* **Code** : this is where you create your programs and start executing your project to test and debug it.
* **Sprites**: *sprites* are images that you can draw and modify in this section. You can easily refer to them to display them (paste them on the screen) when you program your game.
* **Maps**: Maps are scenes or levels that you can create by assembling your sprites on a grid. You can easily display them on the screen in your program
* **Doc** : here you can write documentation for your project; it can be a game design document, a tutorial, a guide to reuse your project as a template etc.
* **Options**: Here you can set various options for your project; you can also invite other users to participate in your project with you.
* **Publish**: Here you can make your project public; don't forget to create a description and add tags.

## Code

In this section you program and test your project. A source code file is automatically created for your project. You can add others to divide the functionalities of your project into various sub-sets.

The operation of a microStudio program is based on your implementation of 3 essential functions:

* the function ```init``` where you initialize your variables
* the function ```update``` where you animate your objects and scan the entries
* the ```draw``` function where you draw on the screen

<!--- help_start init = function --->
### Function ```init()```

The init function is called only once when the program is launched. It is useful in particular for defining the initial state of global variables that can be used in the rest of the program.
<!--- help_end --->
##### example
```
init = function()
  status = "welcome"
  level = 1
  position_x = 0
  position_y = 0
end
```

### Function ```update()```
<!--- help_start update = function --->
The function ```update``` is invoked 60 times per second. The body of this function is the best place to program the logic and physics of the game: state changes, sprite or enemy movements, collision detection, keyboard, evaluation of touch or gamepad inputs, etc.
<!--- help_end --->

##### example
```
update = function()
  if keyboard.UP then y = y+1 end
end
```

The above code increases the value of the y variable by 1 every 60th of a second if the ```UP``` key on the keyboard is pressed (up arrow).

<!--- help_start draw = function --->
### Function ```draw()```
The ```draw``` function is called as often as the screen can be refreshed. This is where you have to draw your scene on the screen, for example by filling in a large coloured rectangle (to erase the screen), then drawing a few sprites or shapes on top of it.
<!--- help_end --->

##### example
```
draw = function()
  // fill the screen with black
  screen.fillRect(0,0,screen.width,screen.width,screen.height, "rgb(0,0,0)")
  // draw the sprite "icon" in the center of the screen, in size 100x100
  screen.drawSprite("icon",0,0,100,100)
end
```

In most cases, ```draw``` is called 60 times per second. But some computers or tablets can refresh their screens 120 times per second or even more. It can also happen that the device running the program is overloaded and cannot refresh the screen 60 times per second, in which case the ```draw``` function will be called less often. This is why ```update``` and ```draw``` are two separate functions: no matter what happens, ```update``` will be called exactly 60 times per second; and when ```draw``` is called, it is time to redraw the screen.

### Execution

In the "Code" section, the right part of the screen allows you to see your program in action, while continuing to modify its source code. To launch the program, simply click on the <i class="fa fa-play"></i> button. You can interrupt the execution of your program at any time by clicking on the button <i class="fa fa-pause"></i>.

### Console

During the execution of your program, you can use the console to execute simple commands in *microScript*. For example, you can simply enter the name of a variable to find out its current value.

##### examples
Know the current value of the position_x variable
```
> position_x
34
>
```
Change position value_x
```
> position_x = -10
-10
>
```
Call the draw() function to see the change in position_x and its effect on the drawing on the screen (assuming that the execution is paused)
```
> draw()
>
```

### Traces

In your program code, you can send text to be displayed on the console at any time, using the ```print()``` function.

##### example
```
draw = function()
  // your draw implementation()

  print(position_x)
end
```
## Sprites

Sprites are images that can move on the screen. The drawing tool in *microStudio* allows you to create sprites, which can then be used in the program code to display them on the screen at the desired position and size.

### Create a sprite
Each project has a default sprite, called "icon", which will act as the application's icon. You can create new sprites by clicking on *Add a sprite*. You can rename them as you wish and define their size in pixels (width x height).

### Drawing options
*microStudio* offers the classic drawing functions: pencil, filling, eraser, lighten, darken, soften, increase contrast, change saturation.

The eyedropper tool can be used at any time by pressing the [Alt] key on the keyboard.

The *tile* and symmetry options will help you to create "repeatable" sprites or sprites with one or two symmetry axes.

##### Tip
You can import image files to your microStudio project. To do so, drag and drop PNG or JPG files (up to 256x256 pixels in size) to the list of sprites.

## Maps
A map in microStudio is a grid for assembling sprites. It allows you to assemble a decor or create a level.

### Create a map
Maps can be created, renamed just like sprites. It is possible to modify the size of the grid (in number of cells). Each cell can be painted with a sprite. It is possible to change the pixel size of each cell, which should generally reflect the size of the sprites used to paint the grid.


## Settings
The *Settings* tab allows you to customize some elements of your project.

### Options
You can define the title of your project, its identifier (used to create its URL i.e. its internet address).

You can specify whether your project should be used in portrait or landscape mode. This choice will be taken into account when installing your application on a smartphone or tablet.

You can also specify the desired proportions for the display area on the screen. This is an option to ensure the application always looks good when installed on devices with screens of different proportions.

### Users

The users section allows you to invite friends to participate in your project. You must know the nickname of the friend you want to invite. Once a friend is invited, if she accepts your invitation, she will have full access to your project and will be able to make any changes she wants (modify, add, delete sprites, maps, code etc.). However, the modification of the project options and the list of participants is reserved for the project owner.

## Publish

*microStudio* offers a few options for publishing or exporting your project. You can export your project as a standalone HTML5 app, for distribution online, on your site or on game distribution platforms. You can also make your project public on *microStudio* allowing the community to play with it, comment, explore the source code and assets... More export options are planned for the future.

### Make the project public

To make your project accessible to everyone (read-only), click on "Make my project public". Once your project is public, it will be displayed in the exploration tab of the microstudio site. Any visitor will be able to run the game, view and reuse the source code and other components of your project.

Your game has a permanent URL in the form ```https://microstudio.io/author_nickname/game_id/```. You can of course distribute the link to anyone or you may add your game to your existing website by embedding it into an iframe.

### Export to HTML5

To export your full project to a standalone HTML5 app, click "Export to HTML5". This triggers the download of a ZIP archive, containing all the files necessary to run your game: sprites, some JavaScript files, icons and a main HTML file "index.html". Your game can be run locally (double-click the file index.html) or you may upload it to your existing website. It is also ready to be published on many online game distribution platforms that accept HTML5 games (we suggest a few in the HTML5 export panel).
