README.md, before:

![microStudio](static/img/microstudio_title_image.png)

microStudio is a free, open source game engine online.
It is also a platform to learn and practise programming.

microStudio can be used for free at https://microstudio.dev

You can also install your own copy, to work locally or on your own server
for your team or classroom. You will find instructions below.

# 3 ways to use microStudio

### Online service
microStudio is available online at https://microstudio.dev ; this is the simpler and the preferred way, you will have access to all the online collaboration features, online publishing and more export features. You don't even need to create an account, you can start working as a guest.

### Standalone application (offline)
Using the standalone, offline app ; download it here: https://github.com/pmgl/microstudio/releases ; helpful if you plan to use it in an environment without connection to internet.

### Set up your own microStudio server
You can clone this repository and start your own microStudio server, for a team or a classroom for example. See instructions below:

* Install Node JS (downloads and instructions: https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
* clone this repository
* `cd microstudio/server`
* `npm install`
* `npm start`
* Open browser on `http://localhost:8080`

For active development use:
* `npm run dev` instead of `npm start`

Commit message:

Linked the downloads on itch.io

README.md, after:

![microStudio](static/img/microstudio_title_image.png)

microStudio is a free, open source game engine online.
It is also a platform to learn and practise programming.

microStudio can be used for free at https://microstudio.dev

You can also install your own copy, to work locally or on your own server
for your team or classroom. You will find instructions below.

# 3 ways to use microStudio

### Online service
microStudio is available online at https://microstudio.dev ; this is the simpler and the preferred way, you will have access to all the online collaboration features, online publishing and more export features. You don't even need to create an account, you can start working as a guest.

### Standalone application (offline)
Using the standalone, offline app ; download it in the Releases section of this repository, or on itch.io: https://microstudio.itch.io/microstudio ; helpful if you plan to use it in an environment without connection to internet.

### Set up your own microStudio server
You can clone this repository and start your own microStudio server, for a team or a classroom for example. See instructions below:

* Install Node JS (downloads and instructions: https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
* clone this repository
* `cd microstudio/server`
* `npm install`
* `npm start`
* Open browser on `http://localhost:8080`

For active development use:
* `npm run dev` instead of `npm start`
*
